.\"Shiju P. Nair September 30, 2004
.TH LINKICC 1 "September 30, 2004"
.SH NAME
linkicc - little cms device link generator.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B linkicc
.RI [ options ] " <profiles>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
lcms is a standalone CMM engine, which deals with the color management.
It implements a fast transformation between ICC profiles.
.B linkicc 
is little cms device link generator.
.P
Links two or more profiles into a single devicelink profile.
Colorspaces must be paired except Lab/XYZ, that can be interchanged.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-8
Creates 8-bit devicelink.
.TP
.B \-b 
Black point compensation.
.TP
.B \-c <0,1,2,3>
Precission (0=LowRes, 1=Normal, 2=Hi-res). [defaults to 1]
.TP
.BI \-d\  description
Description text (quotes can be used).
.TP
.B \-h <0,1,2,3>
Show summary of options and examples.
.TP
.BI \-i\  profile
Input profile (defaults to sRGB).
.TP
.B -k <0..400> 
Ink-limiting in % (CMYK only)
.TP
.BI \-o\  profile
Output devicelink profile. [defaults to 'devicelink.icm']
.TP
.B \-t <0,1,2,3>
Intent (0=Perceptual, 1=Colorimetric, 2=Saturation, 3=Absolute).
.TP
.B \-x 
Creatively, guess deviceclass of resulting profile.
.TP
.nf
Built-in profiles:
	*Lab  -- D50-based CIEL*a*b (PCS)
	*XYZ  -- CIE XYZ (PCS)
	*sRGB -- sRGB color space
	*Gray22- Monochrome of Gamma 2.2
	*Lin2222- CMYK linearization of gamma 2.2 on each channel
.fi					
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
To create 'devicelink.icm' from a.icc to b.icc:
	linkicc a.icc b.icc

To create 'out.icc' from sRGB to cmyk.icc:
	linkicc -o out.icc *sRGB cmyk.icc

To create a sRGB input profile working in Lab:
	linkicc -x -o sRGBLab.icc *sRGB *Lab

To create a XYZ -> sRGB output profile:
	linkicc -x -o sRGBLab.icc *XYZ *sRGB

To create a abstract profile doing softproof for cmyk.icc:
	linkicc -t1 -x -o softproof.icc *Lab cmyk.icc cmyk.icc *Lab

To create a 'grayer' sRGB input profile:
	linkicc -x -o grayer.icc *sRGB gray.icc gray.icc *Lab

To embed ink limiting into a cmyk output profile:
	linkicc -x -o cmyklimited.icc -k 250 cmyk.icc *Lab
.fi
.SH NOTES
For suggestions, comments, bug reports etc. send mail to
info@littlecms.com.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jpgicc (1),
.BR tificc (1),
.BR psicc (1),
.BR transicc (1),
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Shiju p. Nair <shiju.p@gmail.com>,
for the Debian project.
